# guardian

This is a project focused on process automatization from web data sources. It carries ETL routines within, and integrations with external tools and platforms.

It is based on OOP so that it can offer a simpler logic to it's code.

It has multiple modules containing sets of codes with direct relationship to the module name and objective. And the main classes of the project are based in a hierarchicle structure.

### Main Components:

* ETL: Using mainly pandas and other tools;
* Integrations: Integrates services and platforms such as Snowflake, Azure blob containers, Google Sheets and others;
* Automatization: It allows us to schedules routines to extract data from web services as Gen.te (LG), Metabase, Locus, Zendesk  and Google Sheets. While also allowing the sharing and transformations of data from Snowflake through specific daily routines.

## Overview

The table below gives an overview of how the automatizations are operating. Observation: There are some reports that are generated by ETL process, not being in it's orginal format.

<table><tr><th><b>Project</b></th><th><b>Concept</b></th><th><b>Quantity of processes</b></th><th><b>Type</b></th></tr>
<tr><td rowspan="13">guardian</td><td rowspan="13">The project contains automatization and etl routines that supports the data vizualization tools and workflows of teams from both MX and BR and the sharing of data for Justo partners</td><td rowspan="5">96 Report extrations</td><td>59 Metabase</td></tr>
<tr><td>25 Google Sheets</td></tr>
<tr><td>11 Zendesk</td></tr>
<tr><td>1 Playvox</td></tr>
<tr><td>1 Locus</td></tr>
<tr><td rowspan="8">20 Report generation - ETL</td><td>2 APIs data to CSV </td></tr>
<tr><td>10 CSV to GSheets</td></tr>
<tr><td>2 CSVs to CSV (data manipulation)</td></tr>
<tr><td>2 CSVs to Blob Container</td></tr>
<tr><td>2 Snowflake to GSheets</td></tr>
<tr><td>1 Snowflake to Blob Container </td></tr>
<tr><td>1 CSV + Dashboard to CSV (manual execution)</td></tr>
<tr><td>1 Snowflake to SFTP (pending)</td></tr> 
</table>

## **Report Extractions List**
A detailed list of all the extractions being executed daily and it's sources can be found in this documentation https://justo.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DS1/pages/2486206465/Automatizations+Currently+Active+BR+-+2023-11-03.
